When it comes to reading, to portray their reading methods, I should write at the beginning, read the book from the very start.
I was going to leave in the middle of the second hand, and I could go on with this book, and I was going to very faithfully carry on to the end.
About seven years ago, I started this book called The Israel Reading.
It started as a little essay.
There seemed to be several views that met there.
And with the question, I was very intrigued as to why the history of what I love, the history of literature, had always been written from the point of view of the writers, when in fact, it seemed to me, it was the readers who decided what a book is going to be.
Jonathan Swift adamantly thought that his book was fierce political satire, and I believe the readers put the book on the shelf of children's books.
The powers of the reader, I think, have not been chronicled in any systematic way.
And when I worked on this book, I realized why.
Probably because to write even a history of reading, a big history of reading, as I first arrogantly thought I would be able to do, is to write the history of the world.
It's an extremely complex activity and I found that
To describing the chronology of literature, the usual chronology of what we call history is quite useful because things happen in a different order for readers.
It was interesting to discover that, for instance, we readers used to read aloud for the longest time, but the natural way of reading, then we picked up on this with trying to understand a text that seems complex, is to read aloud.
silent being did not become common, at least in the Western world until the 10th century.
And in my explorations of the history of being, I came across a wonderful moment in the confessions of St.
Augustine with St.
Augustine, a teacher in Milan.
He had left, he had come from North Africa, come to Rome and try to set up a little school in Rome.
the students for premiums and nobody paid.
By the time they came to pay their rent and they all disappeared.
So he decided to try to get back in Milan.
And in Milan he went to visit one of his mother's acquaintances, Saint Ambrose.
And he comes upon Ambrose in his cell surrounded with books
And obviously doing something that Augustine identifies as reading, which he can't believe is reading because those towns are coming down to found books as far as.
So we have, just like time, a description of how surprising it was to discover a solid reading at that time.
Many of these anecdotes, these hidden readers came about as, as I will explain, as history of reading.
I loved Lin Tarrant-Words' book because it reflected one of those aspects.
A Canadian essay, Stanley Percy, told me once that for readers there must be a million autobiographies because
We recognize ourselves in the experience that others have written about.
And Sharon Schwartz's book seems to me an encapsulated version of all those readings.
It's also the history of possession, of just accumulation of the things we love.
And that, as I'm sure we hear, is Nicholas Batten's book, which he calls the general madness.
this obsession with having as hours of all things to read.
The invention of the printing press
put forward the idea that there can be a number of identical books.
Up to the invention of the printing press, of course, every manuscript necessarily is different.
In fact, the scribes had no, there were no editors at the time who would decide you cannot do this.
So scribes would
in the book.
It invented, in fact, the revised versions of the text.
With the invention of the printing version, it seems as if you and I can read the same book, when in fact, we know that is not the case, because my book has a copy stain on page 74, and it has a memory of the case in which I read it, and it has those biblical parts.
and Martin and so on.
Each book becomes a unique copy, and so we want to possess it, we want to achieve it, and we want to base it in our history, our history of reading,
There was also the need to somehow classify that which we have accumulated.
I love one of our ancestors, the reader of the 10th century, the Grand Vizier, who had a collection of over 100,000 books.
And in order to transport them from face to face, he had his panels open up by the crawlers.
You can find them over easy.
Those who were fascinated by books were known, for instance, in the Library of Alexandria, where the poet Galimachus tried to establish some sort of an order for both the human beings.
But those are ordainers of the universe, and they think of the substance.
Every reader is an ordainer of the universe.
The universe, of course, is image of the libraries.
is the image that Borges gave us for all time.
He speaks of the library of the universe in the library of Denmark.
Let me direct to my encounter with Borges.
I was 16 years old at the time.
And I was working in Anglo-German books for the Buenos Aires and had heard of Voyage.
One of the reasons I didn't think he was important was because we had studied him in school.
And as so many readers, I was put off by that which those who were older readers supposedly wired at once and not was told in the way.
And when he came into the bookstore, he was almost completely blind and he was accompanied by his 90-year-old mother.
And he was looking for books on Anglo-Saxon.
He was studying Anglo-Saxon at the time.
His mother would get very angry and would say, Georgie, I don't know why you don't study something useful like Latin or Greek.
And one day he asked me if I would come and read to him in the evenings and his mother was very tired.
Now, he asked me and he asked dozens of other people who were somehow privileged.
And for about two years I read more of this on and off.
And the extraordinary experience was that it gave me
A private annotated edition.
He would choose, of course, what to read.
He would tell me how to read.
He would tell me when to stop.
When I told his anecdote to a friend, I told him it was, as if I were the driver and the boy that was behind me telling me where to go, he said, uh-huh, a case of Homer James or James James.
It was extraordinary to read to Borges because he would interrupt, he would ask me to jot things down.
He would use me as a notepad as he used to all the other people.
And things would occur to him as you read.
So I don't remember what it was that I was reading for him.
It was one of the so-called classics.
And he remarked how awful one of those lines was.
And he wanted to be able to collect the mythology of bad literature by great writers.
He had this wonderful lack of respect that allowed him to compare Plato to Daphne Moyer.
And so
He compiled for the air and air that an impromptu anthology of bad lines by the way back to the war.
There was, for instance, Keats.
The album for all his feathers was a comb.
Or this one, which incited particularly by Webster and the Duchess of Malphie, We Are the Stars Tennis Balls.
There is one in Neruga who he wasn't terribly fond of as a line.
I used to.
I still do.
I used to love Neruga's .
And what he said, yes, there is that first line that says,
I don't know if you can say it in English.
Boina is a little kind of Spanish can.
Yes, that's right.
Thank you.
So the line is something that you were, you were the great beret and it was still hard.
The great beret is something gorgeous, isn't it?
An aspect that I explored in the history of reading was the privacy of reading.
How extraordinary the fact that we can establish this activity without anyone else knowing what takes place.
The rise of silent reading has something to do with this intense privacy.
It is extraordinary how many of the great heresies in the Christian church rise at the time where silent reading becomes pervasive.
There is also a prophylactic aspect
to reading.
Diderot in the 18th century would cure his wife who would suffer from depression.
She was a strongly bigoted woman who you would not imagine as the wife of
very liberal and racy Diderot.
So Diderot would cure her by reading passages from racy Spanish and French novels and he invented this
prescription order of two cases of Chicago and one case between and so on.
And it seems that it's an use here in Armand's ear, did cure her from Verdepressant.
Of course, in the extraordinary role of microbiology in which patients, the nurse also works with the same system, trying to
fewer patients through reading.
But perhaps the aspect that interests me most about reading, the one that made me banish this sense of how was the pleasure of being subversive.
Oliver said that poetry makes nothing happen, and it's true that
a book is there until we read it, until we make something out of it.
And I think across so many cases where readers are able to
turn the book into an extraordinary subversive force.
One very recently, you are probably aware of the wave of censorship and ban writers in Turkey these days, where publishers, journalists, writers, actors are thrown in prison under flinges of offenses against the government.
And recently, an actor and writer, Mayur Binsirai, fed up with the judge who was dictating these rules to him, recited back to the judge a passage of Calvester Trium, which I'm sure didn't share a choice of a piece.
And he was held for contempt of court, thrown into prison.
And then a number of other writers took that same passage, and instead of citing it, CAFTA signed it with their names and sent it to the judge.
It's a very brave gesture, but has not gotten my credit.
So if I make the equal, then it seems that Amnesty International has a proof at the fair, and he would sign a petition for the Turkish writers.
Before we were very grateful.
Fort Reynolds Ford tells a wonderful story which he imagines of Tarek Alexander reading Touheyev's sportsman's sketches.
and first imagining himself as the landowner and slowly imagining himself as the serf behind the landowner and feeling the suffering that Turgenev is describing in the book and three days later of course he establishes the new laws that would remain at least for the time, the life of the serfs.
Another moment of subversive reading, and I like this one particularly because it shows how wide the range of a reader's scope can be.
Ionesco's Rhinoceros was performed in Algeria during the Algerian War.
And at the end of the play, you remember, where the hero who refuses to become a rhinoceros
shouts out, I will not capitulate.
The whole audience cheered the Algerians and the French, those who wanted Algeria to be independent and those who wanted Algeria to remain French.
Finally, that same subversive power is, I think, sometimes best read by those who fear it.
I think censors
are extraordinary subtle readers.
Pinochet, in Chile during the military dictatorship, among the many books he banned, he banned not defaulted, because he felt, and quite rightly, that he should flee for individual human rights, for the sense of freedom and spirit and imagination.
A question that comes up over time now is
whether reading will continue.
George Steiner has said that perhaps we will have reading houses in the future where those quaint enough to read would go to pursue their activity.
But I'm not convinced, you know, I'm not in this immagized mode, or it seems that books will disappear, that people don't read it.
I mean, you are true that that is not the case.
More books have published than ever before.
And also, if I look back at my school, if I look back at my classes at elementary school, high school, and so on, yeah, there were four or five, maybe six or ten friends of mine who I remember were teen readers, but that's about teens.
Most of the class were not keen readers.
They hated the English or Spanish literature class, and they never went to the library and looked at the same thing before.
I'm not afraid of what is called the encroaching technology.
I certainly don't share St.
Burkhardt and Gutenberg energies as this kind of end of the millennium apocalyptic language that were all going to be destroyed by computers and so on.
Everything has never had anything to hear from technology.
We've gone from the clay tablets to the scrolls, to the scrolls, to the coding album, back to the scroll on the computer and so on.
But the technology itself, we won't give you a way to reading it.
In any case, even if we were terrified of the fact, the truth is that it's there.
It's simply there.
It's with us.
And it's up to us to find creative ways of using the technology.
I think that we want definitions.
We just want to know how the book will end, and at the same time, readers know that books don't have an ending, that the best books live beyond the last page.
If we could not wish for a conclusion, if we could allow
this technology to open up new ways of reading for us of going back to methods that have always been there, their interactive text that existed and so on.
The participation of the reader that existed from the very first writer who put that view on a page speaking to me, the general reader.
If we could allow these things and read, perhaps, in a less assertive way, in a vaguely more ambiguous way, a richer way, then perhaps we will continue to cherish this craft of ours.
And I wish you very good leaders of the future.
Thank you.
And lastly has Nicholas Galvin.
What is the visitor file, when the visitor file becomes a video maniac?
There is a fine line between the two.
And although Nicholas Galvin has collected 15,000 worth, he doesn't think that he crossed the line.
But he also admits that you usually don't know what you do.
Badgain is the former book editor of the book of Massachusetts, Cal Brown and Goodick.
The book represents a personal identity of triumph for Badgain who started his career and family's financial future on the book.
During the 80 years of Trent researching and writing a gentle madness, with your files, with your names, and eternal passions of both, he had encounters with two damn items.
One, he lost his job as a book editor, that's paper, and then he lost his book contract.
One is your clothing that his book probably wouldn't count more than 2,000 copies, and another said that the subjects were too similar claims, even for a university's press.
His 12 years at the newspaper now, though, are keen in his approach to a new subject, searching for a carnal personality, eyeball facts, and unusual incidents.
Bad Daniels is a good story when he sees it, and several interesting things happened to him while reading his book.
From the largest book auction in the last 50 years, and the arrest and trial of Stephen Bumler, the champion of the Red Bull Chiefs,
After traveling over 100,000 miles and compiling a 400-table bibliography, Badgain has grown through his worldly, youthful savings, and borrowed money from his family for expenses.
Won't this happen?
To be continued by our guest, it was Badgain.
Thank you very much to me.
Actually, I'm often asked how you cropped the line.
And I like to ask, I'm on the cusp.
And 15,000 books are now up to around 20,000, which leads us to a very interesting question that the three speakers we've already addressed to have quite rightly discussed the joys of reading, the pleasures of reading, the nourishment we get from books.
My book is almost a little on the margin.
I'm often asked if he thought, these people you have described are remarkable, eccentric, but do they read their books?
You know, that's a fair question.
One of the definitions of book collecting often given is how do you know where you're a collector?
A cynical answer is you know you're a collector the day you buy a book you're certainly never reading.
that wasn't pretty cynical perhaps but uh i just i just met with a gentleman in detroit a couple of days ago who has a remarkable collection of first editions by uh and i think that a lot of lessons of course i could probably can you read these books because of course not but you know the first edition you think of the very first book of uh constituents printed in north america that was acknowledged to be collectible the day it came off the press which is the alien indian bible
This book was a great library, great collections all over the world.
Well, that book was written in the Algonquin language, the Jewish Testament in the Algonquin language.
Nobody could read that book.
The day I went to visit with William Scheide, which I described as my chapter six, this man is acknowledged to be perhaps a racist book collector alive.
He's a third generation collector.
His library comes at the Five Stone Library at Princeton University, and he's very much a private collection.
I'll never forget the day I was there, the first visit.
This man who was in the 80s and walked over to a safe where he kept some really extra-rich treasure.
He was lugging a huge clamshell box, which he opened up and reviewed his book.
And I said, can I help you, sir?
You know, you sit down over there.
And he opened the box, reviewing to me his book of your Bible.
And I always travel with a tape recorder.
The tape, you could hear it.
This elderly gentleman saying, are you all right?
And I said, I am a big lightheaded actor, right?
Now, it isn't often that you are invited to touch where metal type bins paper for the first time.
And he invited me to not only handle the book, and to feel it really, and to smell the old leather and the paper.
But then we sat down for 45 minutes, and he just proceeded to describe this book letter by letter, how there were no hyphen.
He pointed out with pinholes.
He was the first book to imprint that Reese's leaves had to be secured to the press with little mail, so they wouldn't wiggle around the paper.
So you say, can we get duty for books?
Can we get lightheaded?
What is it about a book that really has no actual value?
It's like diamonds, or pearls, or silver.
It's really a paper.
And it's terrible.
Why are the people who spend thousands of dollars on a book?
Well, the second thing went, you know, 50 cents.
And it's happening.
You do have an editorial chair down here, wonderful editorial chair.
You'll see a first edition of Fox here, you know, $1,500.
You know, you have the same book at home, but you picked up a good reading copy for a Bible or whatever.
Why is it that people really spend this kind of money to get a first edition or to get a book that really has some meaning for it?
Well, I think Winston Churchill sums it up.
I quote him in my chapter one.
Winston Churchill had a library of, what, 50,000 or so books.
He was asked, have you read all these books?
He said, of course not.
Possibly read 50,000 books.
But what is important is that a gentleman knows what's in his library, where it is when he meets this and how he can gain from it.
To which I would add, you know, I can provide a book that I don't expect I will never read.
But I think I might like to read.
And I certainly can use it as a professional writer or as a reference.
A library where Cicero says it doesn't provide control for a home.
I can't imagine how it's going to hold another library for those books.
and have indicated how various folks have shaped their lives and shaped their professions.
I should tell you how that title came to be.
I'm from Wilson, Massachusetts, where we have distinctively, I hesitate to use the word unique, but a distinctive American institution that you really only find here in the United States.
It's a library that is formed by a book collector, a library that exists quite apart from the university, where there's money left, and the seed core collection is a collectivist library.
This is known as the American Aquarian Society, happens to be in Worcester.
Others are the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York, the Henry Huntington Library in California, the Winn-Andy Clark Library in Los Angeles, the Fulminus Shakespeare Library in Washington, D.C.
They're worth naming because there really is quite a number of the John Carter Brown Library of Providence,
Clemens Library at the University of Michigan.
These libraries basically were put together by people who had a passion for certain fields of influence.
The Shakespeare Library at the Case in Point, Bolger and Dwight were childless, but they decided to build this great library.
Their family would be this collection of books.
They have 79 first folders of the 200 oddities of the Civil War.
And everyone's going into that library and seeing them all laid out like gold ingots and being allowed to take whatever time brought the job.
This is the first printed text of Shakespeare.
This is how we get Shakespeare.
And if you get Shakespeare strictly from print, because there are no surviving manuscripts when we talk about the printed book and what it serves to pass on, I think this is what I was trying to do in a gentle manner, not just to go out and document the activities of these people who are so possessed of acquiring things,
but also the general theme.
So much of what we know, we learn about ourselves, our history, our literature, our culture, would absolutely be lost if we were introduced to people who collect books.
And Gene mentioned the problems that I had publishing this book, getting a publisher interested in it.
I can understand it.
My good friend Will Austin here, a book editor, he might have been here walking in New York.
was Bill telling him about this book I had mine.
And he said, well, what's it about?
Oh, I'm going to write about book collectors.
And Bill, like so many others, would give me a stinking book.
Really?
So I stopped telling people, what is it about book collectors, you know, that other people who are not book collectors might be interested in reading well.
But there was a new theme.
And I tried to trace it through 25 centuries, 23 centuries or whatever, starting in Alexandria.
uh in egypt for the great greek collectors just acquired so many things and this library existed
But being an old journalist, an old newspaper guy who loves good stories, it seemed to me that another story that had never been done, and I do have that bibliography.
The bibliography of my book is my primary collection right now.
I think I know 95% of all the books in my own bibliography.
was that none of these books had ever gone out and profiled living collectors, found these people who I maintain exist in this continuum, who have preserved things, who have saved things.
And so a whole new endeavor began.
Part one was the history.
I did a lot, most of my reading at Harvard University.
We have over 13 million books.
And I could really just about find anything I wanted.
But now it was time to go out there, you know, to meet people, to find the stories.
And this really became the heart of my book.
I was blessed in that some of the great options in the last 25 or 30 years, more than what's happened under my watch,
There was a Rattling Market sale, a Skelter Mahini sale, a sale called The Garden a little bit, in which on one night, $16.5 million was spent for 300 books.
And that sounds like a lot of money.
I guess to all of us in the room, that sale only got three paragraphs from the New York Times.
Totally lost.
Why is that?
The day before, in the same Washington house, in the same room, one painting by William de Kooning, a living artist, sold for $21 million.
That week, perhaps $150, $200 million was spent for painting, for artwork.
So we talk about books and how valuable they are.
There is a perspective, you know.
Had the person who spent $21 million for that tomb decided to build a library, could have bought one of them, a great library, and had $5 million left over to build a building.
And he needed perhaps a valid share on a library of events.
But that story was lost, and that became a fascinating story.
Because as I learned, a person who had put this library together was a pseudonymous person.
And it had actually been a civil case that forced this library to be sold.
When I started to look into it and pounded the files,
So I was trying to find out who the person was and how he managed to get $20 million in other man's money.
and to use it to build this library.
And I call that chapter, To Have and To Have No More.
The man's name is Haven of Olor, which is an acronym for Have No More.
It's not his real name.
I found out what his real name is.
And I discovered that in the book, how I found it.
And since publication, the book was determined to occur in the day.
And we'll do that for our future piece.
That's what we call a development story.
Early one morning in 1990, I'm reading USA Today, I feel a little story.
Now, I understand we had an amazing book, A Gentle Madness, and I feel kind of how that came to pass.
Isaiah Thomas was a great patriot, printer, publisher.
He wrote a book, which is still in print today.
The oldest book in print, continuous, probably this year printing in North America.
He's the most prominent bookseller.
He had his own factory.
He was using papers and selling books.
He printed Bibles.
He's remembered for nothing yesterday.
What he's remembered for was his hobby, which became the American Aquarian Society.
When he died, his grandson, Benjamin Franklin Thomas, said, Grandfather was afflicted from the earliest of ages by the gentleness of infirmities he completely obeyed at.
I remember seeing that in the words of my title.
Now that title was in place the day I read of the arrest of Oklahoma, Iowa, Stephen Ornberg.
This man was arrested in an old Victorian house, 24,000 books, and was initially estimated to be worth perhaps $20 million.
And they're all there.
What makes them very interesting to me as a thief, by the way, is the fact that he sold these books because he loved them.
He didn't steal them himself.
I mean, reason is not a factor in this particular case.
I'm going to forget going to the trial and the prosecutors saying over and over again, he is just a thief.
He is just a thief.
And I said, he is a thief, but he's not just a thief.
And it became my intention there to try and probe this man
the force is trying to understand the forces that they're moving into to acquire 24 000 books from 268 libraries in 45 states participating in provinces in the district of columbia and he's going to the record and he wanted to get all 50 before it was done
How did he do this?
You know, why did he do it?
Over a 20-year period.
And by the way, he didn't get caught the way that he falls into the zone.
I think it's really out there.
He'd be well over the 50 states by now.
Except for his own friend, who got into trouble with the federal government, and negotiated to deal with insurance for money.
He was arrested.
When they started to look at new books and try to determine who owned them, they thought, number one, that we had removed all of the book plates.
Any identifying mark that were going to be able to get rid of these books came from.
Fortunately, within the collection, we kept a scrapbook of book plates.
Three scrapbooks of book plates.
I remember driving with him.
I spent a day with him bearing a child.
And this was wonderful.
I was here in New York, and he was out on the hill by the way.
The principal provision is he couldn't go get any life out of the book.
And remained within the state of Iowa.
He was fascinated by that.
He said, do you want to write about me as a book of book collectors?
He said, for sure.
He put you in the same book with J.P.
Warren and Henry Huntington.
What you were looking for, what the focus was.
You know, in fact, what's that extinguishing, the collection from accumulation is focused.
you know, an interest book that really inspired me and moved to do this.
Steven introduced his focus he had with Americana.
He is considered as one of the training grade experts on the 19th century American architecture city and so he told me this collection started as a reference library.
And if it's within your book collectors, one of these to another, it's explaining the 100th in funeral began.
Well, the funeral is a book that is published in the creating period of the print, about the 1450 or so, but we can write by the name of the most prominent one, up to 1500.
He had 100 movies.
including the Ureberg Chronicle, which is one who is a property criminalized college in California.
It's a hundred and two of them.
It's not bad, not for a collection in the latter part of the 20th century.
His had no work on it was estimated to be worth $100,000.
He had to see Connecticut's own copy of the first book printed in Connecticut.
How he managed to get this, we still don't know, because this came from the Connecticut State Library, which is absolutely a public.
It's not a general circulation library.
And for a team, we kept those.
We were coming back from the area of flea market in Massachusetts.
We traveled, we paid it, we sold the car.
We sent one of the people across the street to the St.
House and Hartley to steal a couple of dorms.
We'll get to the dealer out there.
But we went in that confession, particularly the American folks.
Yes.
During the trial, we talked, and we became friendly.
And then he invited me during an off day to travel with him down to a tunnel, which I did take the whole conversation.
He's driving along, you'll see a dumpster.
The car will come to a Korean stop, get that car, guides into the dumpster, head for us.
The thing is shaking around the garbage.
Thankfully, I had one picture in the book of him emerging from the dumpster of a book.
And it turned out it was a warranty hearty thing.
We figured out it was probably worth $100.
This is perfect, because his defense, or did I fail to mention, by the way, his defense and his trial, which essentially is criminal, because we're the lady of that, which is what that is.
Those are the documents.
This is a book titled Gentle Madness, and this defense is not guilty by reason of insanity, which I thought was quite frivolous until I got to the trial.
He said to me once during I tried, by the way, he did not want to be judged insane.
His family, which was the family of some demons, was pushing this defense.
They clearly admitted the theft.
He said, Nick, do you think I'm crazy?
You see, the only person in every single head person is a dumpster.
He said, I haven't caught him.
He rescued a treasure.
He said, he really rescued a treasure.
He really believed he was a rescue of these things.
And if you have a chance to read this chapter, I mean, you'll see that he has had nine episodes in his life where he has actually been in institutions and being looked at, evaluated.
Apparently this started when he was 12, 13 years old.
He started going to condemn the buildings and removing stained glass windows and door homes.
Fixers and any number of other things.
He was concerned that these old Victorian homes were being torn down and destroyed to make way for infestation.
That kind of started there.
When we went to visit the house where the books were kept,
He took me over to his warehouse.
He had, we believe, as many as nine warehouses all over the country, in which were kept renards, stained glass and doors, all kinds of artifacts.
In this particular warehouse, there were 50,000 doorknobs.
He would take.
And he asked me, would you like a memento of our day together?
I said, sure.
I need you to grab a door and I need you to do it.
I need you to do it.
So I have a drawn-out, which we described.
We looked at it.
It was one of the old brasses.
You look at some of these drawn-outs, by the way, they are a really beautiful thing.
He knows everything that is about them.
1892, Robertson, Rothersbury, Pennsylvania.
But the books, the books were really put together to nourish this collection.
And I called that chapter.
It was a blumbering collection, by the way.
I said to him another time, Stephen, why?
He said, you know, when I first was elected, they said that Ms.
Springfield is already at a medical facility.
And word is, elected, and spread around.
And this mafia gone, whose name is me, by the way, and I checked it out too, called him in the car.
Hey, you know, I don't understand.
He said, a guy with less skills.
I did skills in the market, by the way.
He said, you study challenge.
He said, why?
Why are bones and diamonds?
Why books?
He said, we don't understand because I didn't steal these books themselves.
I sold them to the people.
And I said, that wasn't the guy who thought I really was crazy in terms of the procession.
Why is me and my book so protective about Stephen Bloomer?
Well, first of all, it's a great story.
And so that's the first threshold he passes.
But it also seems to me that we have an example of excess
of a collective who literally has flown over the cliff.
You know, there's something that's striking to that.
Largely, you know, there are 14 chapters in the book.
That is the one example of a great set.
I love, you know, the stories of Charles Watson, for instance, the great football player who put together an arguing leader with the finest African Americans watching the United City as a couple of years ago.
This man was offered in an ironclad contract with the New York Giants in 1957.
He played with Lenny Moore.
He played with Goldie Greer.
I interviewed Lenny Moore in 2015.
And I first heard that Charles walked away from the Giants that we thought he was crazy.
I said, Charles, why did you walk away from the Giants?
He said, in his words, I wanted to be a black bibliophile.
When he was seven years old, growing up in Norristown, Pennsylvania, a teacher had told him, he had asked, why is it that I never read, when I'm reading the history books, why is it that there are never any references to me from that bibliophile?
And the teacher said, Charles, black people have no history.
And that bothered him.
You know, my grandfather was a slave.
He escaped on the underground railroad.
He used to sit on the porch and hear these stories.
He used to hear about our family.
He had a history.
And he set out to document and put together this collection, which he started at the age of seven, eight or nine.
And when he was at Penn State, he was also a great track star.
He was going to New York, going to Madison Square Garden, and on an off day, taking the A train up to Harlem, going into the Schaumburg Center, which is the great African American collection of the world.
Also put together by a collector, I know you're part of the piece.
And walking in and saying, I'm not alone.
You know, somebody else has done this.
I heard the money board letter said, we thought he was crazy, but he did better than anyone else.
What he was doing today with the Watson Collection, he's going to campus, and I wouldn't remember, there's 80,000 books.
And as a president of the University of Tiffany, the most important element of the Watson Collection is Charlottesville.
If it seems rare, he asked people through, coming in to try to find out a genealogy.
Well, this is a collector who makes it there, who has done something, but also less stuff for our future, future scholars, readers, like yourselves.
I'll conclude with one brief little anecdote.
Albertjoe mentions how it depends on the library of the future.
There's a new school that was just built out of Monterey, California.